The Masks We Wear Script
Global Jam 2026

Intro Screen
*black screen*
As the nation of Theni commemorates its centennial, we honor the tragic event that reshaped our society. 20 years ago, a massive chemical explosion killed millions and caused 99% of us to lose the ability to perceive emotions. As a mandated Mask Therapist, you will assign our residents the proper emotion masks so they can thrive in our wondrous society.  Immediately dial 666-131-1911to report unmasked citizens. If you see something, say something.
*government logo*
*black screen fades, main screen is now visible*

*arrow appears, pointing to file tabs*
This is your Case File. Flip through the different sections to learn more about your client, note observations, and reference the state-issued emotion chart. 
*arrow disappears, new arrows appear, pointing to masks*
These are your mandated masks! Assign the client a mask to match the emotion they should be feeling before time runs out. Good luck!


Client 1 – David
“Hi, thanks for seeing me!”
Name: David
Sex: Male
Age: 38	DOB: 11/27/20XX
Current Address: 219 W Euclid Ave
Reason for Visit
Daughter celebrated her 3rd birthday
I’m exercising more often
My cooking seems to taste better
Considering adopting a mouse
Meeting with friends to discuss a financial opportunity
Observations
O
O
O
Correct Mask: Confident
Dialogue when correct – “This fits perfectly! Have a nice day!”



Client 2 – Alyssa
“Sorry that I’m late, I made a wrong turn at the sinkhole.”
Name: Alyssa
Sex: Prefer not to say
Age: 23	DOB: 03/18/20XX
Current Address: 225 Beacon St
Reason for Visit
Recently attacked by a wild animal while exploring
I keep seeing the beast in my dreams, and it has no face
The board at my job is reviewing if I’m a good fit
The Fortune Teller says that I should avoid other people
I declined having dinner with my family
Correct Mask: Nervous
Observations
O
O
O
Dialogue when correct – “I see… that makes sense, thank you.”




Client 3 – Sebastien
“Hello there.”
Name: Sebastien
Sex: Male
Age: 65	DOB: 04/13/XXXX
Current Address: 225 Tanglewood Dr
Reason for Visit
I recently moved due to a construction incident
Got hired for a new job with better pay
Living lavishly in the Upper Region
Have been doing work I normally wouldn’t be able to do
I will continue to rise up in this world
Observations
O
O
O
Correct Mask: Confident
Dialogue when correct – “...”



Endings
Giving the Incorrect Mask

David goes to buy his daughter a birthday gift –
a cute white mouse. While talking to the seller, 
he is approached and arrested on a report for
suspicion of wearing the wrong mask.

Alyssa avoids leaving her house and quits exploring.
Her nightmares about the attack are less frequent.
During an employee review, her boss notes an increase in productivity,
causing her to be interrogated and taken into custody.

All traces of Sebastien have disappeared. Notably,
reports of wild animal attacks seem to occur more often.
One day, you receive a letter. Inside, there is a small paper saying:
“A poor choice on your part. I will do what I must to avoid being reported.”



Giving the Correct Mask

David hits big on his investment, 
being able to move to the Upper Region with his daughter. 
He is now in the security division, and is known for 
taking care of stray mice he finds.

After being fired, Alyssa decides to work for The Fortune Teller.
Remaining haunted about the beast, they become 
notorious for advocacy on more vigilant safety patrols.

Sebastien have disappeared. Notably,
reports of wild animal attacks seem to occur more often.
One day, you receive a letter. Inside, there is a small paper saying:
“A poor choice on your part. I will do what I must to avoid being reported.”




Emotion Reference Chart
Sad:
Behavioral Clues - Hesitant Speech, Avoids Eye Contact, Long Pauses
Body Language - Slouched Posture, Restrained Gestures
Nervous:
Behavioral Clues - Fidgets, Interrupts, Occasional Laughs
Body Language - Shifting Posture, Repeated Gestures, Restless 
Angry:
Behavioral Clues - Short Responses, Abrupt Movements
Body Language - Leaning Forward, Rigid Posture, Tight Gestures
Confident: 
Behavioral Clues - Direct Eye Contact, Steady Speech, Consistent Gestures
Body Language - Upright, Relaxed Posture, Calm Tone





Lore Notes
666-131-1911 → 666 = Evil Number, 13 1 19 11 = M A S K
Wild faceless beast → One of the “evils”? Mutated, alien, etc…
Sebastien’s DOB year is obscured
















Scrapped Stuff
*TV Screen with Reporter*
Reporter (Joy Mask): It’s now been 20 years since the chemical explosion that caused the population of Theni to lose their ability to perceive emotions. The President of Thenia would like to remind everyone that not wearing a mask at all times is a felony – please see your local designated Mask Therapist if you require assistance. Immediately dial 666-131-1911 to report unmasked citizens or anything suspicious. Now, to Tom for the weather!
Tom (Expressionless Mask): It will rain.
*TV Screen Fizzles/Fades*
*Assistant/Agent walks in*
Assistant (Joy Mask): Good morning! You have a busy day ahead of you – 3 clients will be visiting today. We thank you for your service to our country. 
*Assistant Leaves*
This is your Case File. Flip through the different sections to learn more about your client and ask questions- observations will appear in your Notes as you discover more information.
*arrow disappears, new arrows appear, pointing to masks*
These are your masks! Assign the client the correct mask to match the emotion they should be feeling before time runs out.
*arrows disappear, new arrow appears, pointing to dialogue box*
Questions and dialogue will appear here. Good Luck!
Reason for Visit:
Mother recently passed away unexpectedly
A wild beast attacked us while camping
Father gave a short speech at the funeral
Close relationship with parents
The house is quieter without her voice
